i don't think free speech is a right
among other rights i think that
i don't think there's any difference
between free speech and thought
and it has to be free because if it's
not free it's not thought so imagine
mostly you have to think about hard
things because why think otherwise if
everything's going all right
you don't have a problem
when you have a problem you have to
think and if you have a problem the
thinking is going to be troublesome
because you're going to think things
that
upset yourself and upset other people
it's part of the necessity it's part of
what will necessarily happen if you're
thinking
um
i just want to repeat you said something
that just
stopped me sorry because i actually
stopped it stopped me so completely cold
that i missed a little bit of what
followed i just want to repeat it there
is no difference between speech
and thought if you're going to have free
thought you must have free speech that's
the argument yeah yeah okay well i'll
unpack that first and then return to the
other one well there's a bunch of
reasons for that i mean first of all
mostly
you think in words now people also think
in images but i'm not going to go into
that we'll just leave that aside but
mostly we think in words and so
we use a mechanism that's sociologically
constructed
the world of speech
to organize our own
psyches
and we do that with speech and basically
when you think there's two components to
it
that are
internal in a sense
when you think you have a problem so you
ask yourself a question
and then
answers appear in the theater of your
imagination generally verbally so that'd
be like the revelatory element of
thought and that's very much prayer like
in some fundamental sense because it's
very mysterious you know the fact that
you can pose yourself a question
and then you can generate answers it's
like well why did you have the question
if you can generate the answers if the
answers are just there and where do the
answers come from well you can give a
materialist account to some
extraordinarily limited degree but
phenomenologically it's still the case
that you pose a question to yourself in
speech and you receive an answer in
speech now it can also be an image
forget about that then the next question
is what do you do once you receive the
answer and the answer is well if you can
think
then you use internal speech to dissect
the answer which is what you do for
example you encourage your students to
do if they're writing an essay you know
they lay out a proposition and then you
hope they can take the proposition apart
and essentially if they are what they're
doing is they're transforming themselves
into
avatars
speaking avatars of two different
viewpoints so you have the speaker for
the proposition and then you have the
critic and maybe you lay out the
dialogue between them and that
constitutes
the body of the essay and you have to be
bloody sophisticated to manage that
because it means that you have to divide
yourself in some sense into two avatars
that are oppositional and then you have
to allow yourself to be the
battle space between them that and
people have to be trained to do that
that's what universities are supposed to
do it's really hard what people
generally do instead of that is talk to
other people
and that's how they
they organize themselves by talking to
other people and then the reason you
have the right to free speech isn't so
that you can just say whatever you want
to gain a hedonistic advantage which is
one way of thinking about it you just
get you have a right to say whatever you
want like you have a right to do what
you want you know subject to certain
limitations so it's like it's a hedonic
freedom it's like no that's not why you
have a right free speech you have a
right to free speech because
the entire
entirety of society depends
on this depends
for its ability to adapt to the changing
horizon of the future on the free
thought of the individuals who compose
it it's like a free market in some sense
it's a free market argument in
relationship to thought we have to
compute this transforming horizon well
how do we do that well by consciously
engaging with possibility well how do we
do that well it's mediated through
speech so societies that are going to
function
over any reasonable amount of time have
to leave their citizens alone
to grapple stupidly with complexity
so that out of that
stupid grappling fraught grappling that
that's offensive and difficult and and
and upsetting
we can grope towards the truth
collectively before taking the steps to
implement those truths before they've
been tested and so so then you might so
that's the free speech argument the
divinity argument is
while you are that locus of
consciousness
that's what you are most fundamentally
and the reason that's associated with
divinity that's a very very complicated
question but part of the reason i
outlined this in my series on the
biblical on the biblical series on
genesis is at the beginning of genesis
for example so imagine this divinity of
the individuals rooted in the narrative
conception that's part and parcel of the
judeo-christian tradition you have god
at the beginning of time
in whose image men and women women are
made acting as the agent that transforms
the chaos of potential into the
habitable reality that is good and he
uses the word the divine word logos to
do that and what that implies is that
the word that's truthful there's more to
it than that but the word that is
truthful is the word that extracts
habitable order out of chaos and that's
what characterizes human beings that
capability and i think
yeah
that's right so
and then you might ask do you believe
that i would say well
that's what your culture is based on
so you might say i don't believe that
it's like fair enough say what you want
but
try acting
try
basing your personal relationships on
any other conception than that and see
what happens you know people
are so
desperate to be treated in that manner
that it's their primary motivation you
want other people to treat you as if you
have something
to say that you're worth attending to
you know that you you have the
opportunity to express yourself no
matter how badly you do it and if
they're willing to grant you their
attention and time to help you
straighten that out there isn't anything
you want more than that
and if you try to structure your social
relationships on any other basis then
that intrinsic respect for their
intrinsic value it's going to fail